# SLF4D
Simple Logging Facade For D, inspired by SLF4J.

This library provides a common framework for detailed application logging, while allowing end users to use a logging provider of their choice. SLF4D gives you a basic `Logger` that exposes various `log` methods, and a logging provider will handle log messages generated by your application in any way it likes. Providers may:
- Format log messages however they like.
- Distribute log messages to other systems (cloud logging systems, for example).
- Perform additional filtering on logs.
- And much more.

Different logging providers are hooked into the SLF4D framework with a logging adapter library.

The following diagram illustrates the SLF4D flow of information.
```text
                    /----------------------------\
                    |  LoggerFactory (Provider)  |
                    \----------------------------/
                                |
                                |   getLogger()
                               \ /
                                v
/----------------\ log("msg") /------------------\
|  Application   | -------->  |  Logger (SLF4D)  |
\----------------/            \------------------/
                                 |
                                 |   handle(msg)
                                \ /
                                 v
                      /-------------------------\
                      |  LogHandler (Provider)  |
                      \-------------------------/
```
- Your application produces log messages using a `Logger`.
- A Logger is obtained from a `LoggerFactory` that's supplied by a provider.
- When you log a message, the message is handled by a `LogHandler` that's supplied by a provider.


## Using SLF4D in your Application
Generally, in your application's main module, you'll define a static `LoggerFactory` instance that can be imported in all other modules:
```d
module app_main;

import slf4d;
import slf4d_some_provider : getLoggerFactory();

static LoggerFactory loggerFactory;
static this() {
	loggerFactory = getLoggerFactory();
}
```

Then, in any module of your application, you can simply import the `loggerFactory` from your main module, and call `getLogger()` to get a Logger to use.

```d
module some_other_module;

import app_main : loggerFactory;

void doStuff() {
    auto log = loggerFactory.getLogger();
    // Do things...
    log.info("This is my log message.");
}
```

## Making an SLF4D-Compatible Provider
There is generally just one requirement of an SLF4D provider: define a public `getLoggerFactory()` method that returns an instance of `LoggerFactory`.

This LoggerFactory should implement the standard factory method:
```d
Logger getLogger(string name = __MODULE__);
```
The provider's implementation will mostly involve giving every constructed Logger an instance of a custom LogHandler.
